Salutations,


This pertains to my cat, Chance. The short version is that he has an aggressively metastatic cancer (sarcoma), and I need help designing and administering a chemotherapy regime using alpha lipoic acid, hydroxycitrate, and annonaceous acetogenins extracted from members of the Asimina plant genus (relatives of the pawpaw) or Annona muricata (aka soursop/graviola). I have read from pubmed a decent amount about these chemicals and their effects in interrupting cancerous metabolic pathology, restoring normal pH in the extracellular matrix (limiting metastasis), and restoring apoptosis to cancer cells exhibiting the Warburg effect. Without intervention, Chance has an estimated 2-4 months left. He is only 3 years old.

The long version: In October, I noticed a large lump on his leg just above his ankle, so I took him to my vet (Small Animal Hospital in Fort Myers) for a diagnosis. The diagnosis was injection-site sarcoma. After looking at X-rays for a while, the vets decided a lumpectomy was the best option, so we scheduled and went through with the surgery. He recovered quickly. Two weeks ago, I noticed the lump had returned (though much smaller this time), so I scheduled another vet visit. The vet noticed more than I had: the sarcoma had spread down to his ankle and up through a now-swollen lymph node into the pelvis. He said that surgical intervention would be very invasive and would lead to a severely decreased quality of life and possible complications if it was even successful in removing the whole cancer, and that radiation therapy would likely be needed assuming it has not spread even further. I suspect that without something to suppress proliferation and metastasis, this will be a terminal case.

After the surgery in early November, I had a sense that the sarcoma would recur (though I did not expect it to spread so aggressively), so I did some research on novel cancer treatments, and I stumbled upon alpha lipoic acid (ALA), hydroxycitrate, and annonaceous acetogenins (AGEs) extracted from the Asimina plant genus and from Annona muricata. They seem to be effective against carcinomas and melanomas, and I am hoping they are effective against sarcomas as well. I am unsure what dosages of ALA, hydroxycitrate, and AGEs/extracts would be safe and effective for a cat, and I lack the equipment and knowledge to perform intraperitoneal injections or accurately monitor his progress, so I need professional assistance. I will sign whatever waivers are necessary for experimental clinical studies.

Please let me know if this is something your clinic will be able to help with.


Thanks,
Jonathan Voss


P.S. Papers about the effects of alpha lipoic acid and hydroxycitrate in cancer treatment:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28122260/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28993193/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34211631/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20372858/

Note the animal model used in the third article: mouse with a dosage of 91 mg ALA/kg bodyweight. This study focused solely on ALA.

Papers about the effects of annonaceous acetogenins in cancer treatment:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33630206/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29660776/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30151067/

P.P.S. I have collected a few additional papers/abstracts, but these are the most salient.

